# Conway's Game of Life

Implemented in Go to learn the language.

## Running

Command syntax is quite simple, you need a map and optionally you can control the FPS. The default delay is 200ms resulting in 5fps.

`go run . <map_file> [frame_delay_ms]`

As an example (you should be able to copy-paste this)

`go run . ./premade_maps/pulsar.gol`

Or

`go run . ./premade_maps/random_low.gol 50` (20fps)


~As far as "fps" goes nearly anything works, but for me any delay under 15ms(\~66fps) causes my terminal to struggle to keep up with the output.~
After some performance improvements I can render 1000fps on blinkshell (iOS). I also made the fps more accurate, a warning will be displayed if it cannot keep up with the requested speed. (I only get this warning at 0ms).  
Do keep in mind that i.e. 1000fps makes it unwatchable.

## Building

You could build this if you wanted to for some reason.  
Simply run `go build -o gameoflife(.exe)`.

**linux only!** Another options is to use [alchemist](https://github.com/jasonverbeek/alchemist) to create an AppImage.

`alchemist build`

See `./alchemist.toml` for the scripts that are used for the build.


## Maps

I have made a few maps that can be found in the `premade_maps` folder.

Maps are fairly simple to make, they are a 32x32 grid of cells (I used spaces everywhere but they are optional)

You have 5 options for a cell:

- 0: Empty/Dead cell
- 1: Alive cell
- L: 25% chance of being alive
- M: 50% chance of being alive
- H: 75% chance of being alive

Check `premade_maps/blank.gol` for an easy to start template.

I may add a map editor in the future but that is very unlikely.

## App Icon

For the AppImage and icon has been included which is generated by AI using https://perchance.org/ai-icon-generator
